Update monitoring docs to use the in-cluster monitoring stack (#2586)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_viewing-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards.adoc

[id="proc_viewing-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {devworkspace} Operator metrics from an OpenShift web console dashboard

> After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {devworkspace} Operator metrics, the metrics can be viewed from a custom dashboard within the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer: Our style guide recommend avoiding passive voice when possible. I've rephrased it to use `you`:
```suggestion
After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {devworkspace} Operator metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.
```

.Prerequisites

* An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.

* An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:proc_collecting-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

> . Create a ConfigMap in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} containing the dashboard definition and apply the necessary label. The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, however, not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported within the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer: Same suggestion as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1172485029:
```suggestion
. Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
```

> +

Reviewer: This is due to my suggestion https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1172714045:
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated in latest commit

[source,terminal,subs="+attributes,quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo \

>   --from-literal=dwo-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \

Author: There is a reference to a GitHub url in this command, do we need some kind of disclaimer for this?

  -n openshift-config-managed
$ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed

> ----

Reviewer: Same suggestion as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1172487798:
```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, yet not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

Author: Could we do

```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

(same suggestion as https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586#discussion_r1172972037)

Reviewer: Same as in the [other thread](https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1173483503):
```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards. Not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

> [source,terminal,subs="+attributes,quotes"]
> ----
> $ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo \
>   --from-literal=dwo-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
>   -n openshift-config-managed
> $ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo \
  --from-literal=dwo-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
  -n openshift-config-managed
----

.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed
----
```

.Verification steps

> . In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, navigate to *Observe* -> *Dashboards* from the sidebar menu on the left.

Reviewer: Our style guide recommends avoiding positional references in the UI like "the sidebar menu on the left", also IBM Style advises avoiding "navigate":
```suggestion
. In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, go to *Observe* -> *Dashboards*.
```

> . Select the *Che Server JVM* dashboard under the *Dashboard* dropdown menu and verify that the dashboard panels contain data.

Reviewer: Does this suggestion sound correct?
```suggestion
. Go to *Dashboard* -> *Che Server JVM* and verify that the dashboard panels contain data.
```

[id="proc_viewing-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {devworkspace} Operator metrics from an OpenShift web console dashboard

After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {devworkspace} Operator metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

.Prerequisites

> * An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.
> 
> * An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.

Reviewer: Since this section is only applicable to OpenShift and not vanilla Kubernetes, adding this suggestion to hardcode the attribute/variable values because the upstream docs show Kubernetes:
```suggestion
* Your organization's instance of {prod-short} is installed and running in Red Hat OpenShift.

* An active `oc` session with administrative permissions to the destination OpenShift cluster. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/{ocp4-ver}/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html[Getting started with the CLI].
```

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:proc_collecting-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

. Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
+
.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-dwo \
  --from-literal=dwo-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
  -n openshift-config-managed
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
include::example$snip_{project-context}-disclaimer-for-configuring-observability.adoc[]
```

[id="proc_viewing-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {devworkspace} Operator metrics from an OpenShift web console dashboard

After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {devworkspace} Operator metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

.Prerequisites

* Your organization's instance of {prod-short} is installed and running in Red Hat OpenShift.

* An active `oc` session with administrative permissions to the destination OpenShift cluster. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/{ocp4-ver}/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html[Getting started with the CLI].

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:proc_collecting-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

> . Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.

Reviewer: Looks like it's a single-step procedure, so we need an asterisk:
```suggestion
* Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
```
